All right guys so we have all of our pages done.
Now we're gonna start to look at responsiveness and making it look better on smaller screen so I'm going
to actually create a new SAS file.
So in SPSS I'm going to create a file called underscore media dot SPSS and this is where I want to put
my media queries.
Now I want to bring this into the main CSX our SPSS but I'm going to bring it in down at the bottom
because that's where I want this stuff to be included.
So at the very bottom here let's do import media.
So we'll just put a comment here or say import media queries.
OK.
So let's head over to media SPSS and let's start off with tablets and smaller.
So I'm going to put a media query for a max width of 800 pixels here.
So let's do at media and let's say Max with it's going to be eight hundred pixels
and let's start with the header home.
So let's do I.D. had our dash home.
We're actually not going to have very much in here.
But what I want to do is make the height much less than what it is on on laptops and desktops so I'm
going to take the height from 100 viewport with our viewport height to just 30 REM which is still pretty
big.
It should take a good chunk of the screen but we don't want it to cover the whole screen on a tablet.
And then I'm just gonna take the header content
and actually you know what we can nest this within header home.
So we're going to take the header content and just add a padding dash top of five.
So let's take a look at that.
Now if if this doesn't show like if the media query styles do not show just go ahead and restart this
down here with control C and then run NPM run SAS again you might have to just receive media SPSS.
OK.
And then let's go back here and let's make this smaller and once we hit eight hundred you can see that
it then goes down to the width of that sorry the height goes down to 30 REM.
OK.
So I think that that's better on a tablet rather than having it take up the whole screen.
So that's pretty much it for the 800 pix media pixels media query.
Now I want to deal with smartphones so anything that's under 500 because right here I mean things look
pretty decent.
We don't really need to do anything else for this size.
So we want to now deal with you know smaller Actually what we'll do is open up
chrome tools and let's set it to iPhone X.
OK.
So there's a few things you want to do here.
Under the media max width of 800 pixels.
Let's do smartphones and we're going to do media Max with and let's do this let's say five hundred pixels.
OK.
So first I'm going to work on the header and the main NAV.
Now the main nav I'm going to set the Flex direction instead of roll I'm going to set it to column I
actually want the the logo on top in the center and then the menu underneath in the center.
So let's take the main NAV and let's set the Flex direction to column.
And I want to line items center and I also want the list items I'm going to embed our nest the list
items here.
I'm going to set padding too.
Let's do one REM
OK.
So now you can see that it's in a column fashion rather than a row.
So we have the the logo in the middle on top and then we have the menu in the middle here.
So let's deal with the rest of the header because this obviously doesn't look very good.
So we're going to go under the main NAV and let's do header and we're going to do Amber Sam Dash home.
OK.
And the reason I'm doing it like this is because we're also going to add some styles for Dash inner
as well.
Notice up here I just put in header dash home because we weren't we don't have any styles up here for
header dash inter.
OK so I mean you can do it if you want and header dash home header dash or you don't have to do it this
way.
I just like to organize it in this way.
But you know everyone's different.
So I'm going to set the height to be much smaller.
So on tablets it's 30 ram on full screen it's 100.
It takes up the whole thing on smartphones.
I'm just going to do 10 Ram.
OK so if we save that we take a look you can see that it's much smaller.
Now I'm also going to add a border on the bottom here to kind of separate the rest of the content.
So it's two border bottom and let's set that to three pixels solid and we want it set to the main color
variable.
All right.
Now I don't want the header content displayed all we want is the the logo and the menu and it's not
shown here just because well it is actually we have that you can see the button here.
So we want to just we don't want to show that at all.
So I'm going to invest in here the header content
and let's just set this to display none.
OK.
So now if we go back you'll see that none of that contents displayed that button's gone and we just
have a very simple header with a logo and a menu.
Now the inter pages we take a look here you'll see that the menu is is covered.
So we want the same height for the inner add that we do for the home menu or the home header.
So let's go back in here and let's go after home and let's say inner and let's also set the height to
10 room.
And then if we go back and you'll see the inner pages now are the same as the home actually you know
what we want to do though see how the home the positioning is different.
We want to set the positioning of the home to the same.
To the same x and y values as the inner.
So right here in the home what's two background dash position which if we look in main dot SPSS is right
here.
So 20 percent 30 percent.
OK.
So we want to set that to 20 percent 30 percent.
And now if we save that you'll see that now it looks the same on all pages.
OK.
So let's start to work on stacking some of this stuff.
So we'll start with the home page.
We'll just have basically one style for everything we want stacked so anything that has a grid template
columns of you know repeat for one FDR or repeat three 1 to fire.
We just want to set it to 1 at 5 1 fraction which is just one column that will make it stacked.
So I'm going to go.
Let's see.
Let's go under.
We want to be within the media query.
So this media query ends here.
So I'm going to go right here and let's say stack we want this to be a comment.
So stack grid columns.
So first thing is let's do home dash a specials OK which is a grid.
Next we want home B.
So home dash B stats stats.
And let's do home dash see process.
So these are all grids and then on the about page we have our testimonials.
So let's do a boat dash D class of testimonials.
And then we also have our items on our work page.
So let's say items
so within here I'm just going to set the grid template columns simply to one fraction.
So if I save that we go back.
You can see that these are all stacked.
OK the three sections on the home page will deal with the footer and a little bit and then on the about
page the testimonials are stacked.
We're going to deal with this and then let's see on the work page these are all stacked.
So let's see what else you want to do here.
I want to add.
And the reason that this doesn't look good is because remember we used grid template areas here so we
have to we have to manage this in a different way to make it responsive same with the contact.
But before we do that I want to make this look a little bit better by taking like these boxes here and
putting a little border underneath each one because they're kind of running into each other here.
So let's do that.
Let's go back in and let's go under here and let's do home and let's do Ampersand dash a and we want
to grab the specials div so each div inside the specials class I'm going to add a border bottom two.
Let's do one pixel I'm going to use the light color I want it to be pretty faint and solid.
Let's add a little bit of padding to push each one down.
So padding bottom I'm going to set to one room and I don't want the very last one to have a border so
I'm going to add in here Ampersand colon last child and let's set the border to none.
UPS border none.
And let's set the padding bottom to 0 on the last one.
So we save that.
We take a look.
Now you can see it has a very faint border after each one except for the bottom.
We don't need a border here that would look kind of weird.
Now let's see what else do we want to do.
Here are the stats which are these here I want to just lessen the padding a little bit.
So within this a right here I'm going to go outside of specials but within the a I'm sorry not within
the eights it's Section B.
So we want to go after the A C dash B and we're gonna take the stats divs and set the padding to let's
do two REM top zero and then one Ram bottom OK so that lessens the padding a little bit.
Now I think that that's good for the.
The home page.
I think that we should handle the footer though before we move on because this obviously doesn't look
very good.
So let's go back in and let's go.
Still within the media query.
So we want to go right here.
Let's say footer and we have an I.D. of main dash footer.
I'm going to set the height of the footer to seven RAM and then I'm going to grab the footer content
and set the Flex direction to column.
So we're kind of doing the same thing that we did with the nav bar set it to column and then we're going
to set padding to one room and let's set the height of that to 5 room and let's see what that looks
like.
OK.
So instead of having it in a flex row going across now they're in a column and we just added some padding
to kind of separate this stuff a little bit.
So I think that that looks pretty good.
Let's see.
Next thing we want to do is let's do the about page.
So we'll handle this part right here which is which our grid template areas.
So we just want to basically reframe the grid template areas.
So I want to go here and say about let me just put a comment right here as well for home.
So we'll say idea about and we want to deal with about Dash a.
So let's do Ampersand dash a.
And it has a class of intro right.
Wait what was it.
I mean just check this out.
So hey and we want the grid which is this.
Oh it's about info not intro so class about Dash info which is already displayed as a grid and it has
template areas which sets the columns.
Now I just want it to be stacked.
So I'm going to take the bio image and just to show you what I'm talking about.
If we look at about let's see where is it.
So right here we have bio image bio bio basically want all of these just to go straight down in one
one column or one row.
So let's say bio image
Wait a minute.
This isn't right.
We have to add in grid template areas and then we're going to do
bio image next line here will be bio then we have award one
award too and award three.
And we already have the grid template the other grid areas set right here.
So we don't have to redo those or anything it's already set.
We just simply want to change the orientation.
All right.
And then for SI let's see this right here.
This is see the logos.
I'm just going to remove this whole thing because I don't it's not that important.
And I mean we could we could stack the logos on top of each other but that's just too much rum just
to show some logos and they're way too small to leave it like this so I'm going to just get rid of that.
And of course again if you guys want to do something different that's absolutely fine.
But that's what I would do in this situation.
So I'm going to go.
Actually it's at a semicolon right here.
I'm going to go below the hips below the ay which ends here and do dash Sam Dash C which is the logo
section and I'm just going to display none.
Get rid of it completely.
So now if we go back that part is now gone.
OK.
So the about page looks pretty good.
Let's go to the work is good.
Let's go to the contact page.
So let's see.
Let's head over here and let's add a section for contact.
So we have I.D. contact and let's target contact dash a.
And I'm gonna grab the text fields class so text fields and we want to change the orientation of the
the the inputs.
So again we're gonna do grid template areas and let's set.
Name
Email actually.
Subject
e-mail phone and message.
OK so we're just kind of stacking all those inputs.
So I save that we go back.
Now he can see that they're all stacked so the next part is this.
This right here.
I also want to stack these so we can actually let's actually add that up above where we put all the
other stuff we want stacked.
So what is the selector for this.
So it's contact info is the grid.
OK.
So we can just go back here and I mean here
let's say dots contact info.
Now if I save that wait a minute why is
contact info.
Actually we might have to add this section.
We should do that anyway so contact B so let's do I.D..
Contact B contact info.
There we go.
OK so now these are stacked.
And the reason for that is because that's the selector we used to add to the.
The repeat 3 1 FA
now that still doesn't look very good.
I want to separate these a little bit.
I also want to add a little faint Porter below each one like we did on the home page so let's jump down
here and let's target contact dash B
and we want to target the div or the divs inside and let's set a margin bottom of one room.
Let's do a padding bottom of one room and let's do a border.
Border bottom.
So the border bottom I'm going to set to one pixel and I'm just gonna use the hardcoded color.
I'm gonna use 5 5 5 solid.
I mean we could use a variable by it has a dark background so we can't use dark and I think medium is
a little too light.
I want it to be very faint.
So that's why I hardcoded this.
But again you can do what you want.
And then we don't want a border for the last child or margin or padding.
So let's do ampersand.
Last Child and let's set the border to none set.
Margin bottom to zero and padding bottom to zero.
So save that.
Go back and there we go.
It looks pretty good.
Now I do want to make this text smaller so I'm going to go and see.
So that Section C. So we want to be in contact we'll go under B and let's do Ampersand dash C and we
want to target the H one and it's for REM.
By default I believe so I'm going to set it to two REM.
All right.
We'll save that.
And there it goes.
That looks better.
OK.
So this looks pretty good.
Let's check it out on an iPhone 5.
So if it passes the iPhone 5 test I think we're good and looks nice.
About
work contact.
Good.
Now the last thing I want to look at is landscape mode.
I'm going to go to iPhone X and turn it.
Now I'd like this to be in the middle on landscape mode and you can see that the button is actually
outside of the the container here or the it's below the fold.
So we want to just move this.
So I'm going to jump in here to media SPSS and I'm gonna go at the very bottom and let's do a media
query for landscape.
So to do this we want to target the height.
So let's do media in let's say Max height of five 80 pixels
and we want to grab the header home.
So header dash home.
And then we want the header content which is inside of it.
So class header content and I'm going to set the padding top to just three round.
So that should move it up.
If we go back there we go.
So everything is now in view.
All right.
And even if we go to the let's go to the galaxy and it looks good.
IPhone 5 so the iPhone 5 I mean I guess it's so small it's it's kind of hard to deal with.
I guess what we could do is set another media query for the height see how the it's 320 it's really
small.
The iPhone X height is 325.
Let's see the galaxy is 360.
Pixel is in landscape is for 11 so let's set up so go to iPhone 5.
Let's set 1 for 3 20 and what we'll do is I guess I mean we'll reduce the font size of the heading here.
So let's actually copy this and let's say a max height of will do Thriller three thirty.
And if that's the case then let's take call we see.
Just want to check the each team out.
So it's this each one right here so the header content each one which what's the size by default.
I didn't plan on doing this that's why I'm checking all this so the size by default is for RAM so I
guess we could change it to two Ram.
So we'll say header home header content H1 and we'll set the font size 2 to see if that works out OK.
So I think that that's that's good enough not too many people have iPhone 5 anymore at least that I
know of.
And then if we go back to something bigger than 330 heights you'll see that the H One is back to four.
All right.
So that's it guys we have created our project in the next video.
I want to get it ready to deploy to nullify.
And I want to make the contact form work as well.